<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html charset=utf-8">
<title>Documentation FastSpring Subscription API for RoR</title>
</head>
<body>

# About FastSpring #
[FastSpring](http://www.fastspring.com) offers an innovative e-commerce engine designed to overcome ease of use, customer service, and cost issues that have plagued software e-commerce companies. We employ a customer-driven, iterative and collaborative Agile development process.

# About FastSpring Subscription API for RoR #

The FastSpring Subscription API for RoR allows for easy integration with FastSpring's subscription services. There is a example web application to demonstrate
the usage of the API. All source code is released under the [MIT license](License.txt). It is open to contributions and its use is unrestricted.

# How-to integrate

Read our **[Integration Guide](https://support.fastspring.com/entries/238642-integration-overview)** for information on integrating your RoR application with FastSpring's subscription service.


# FastSpring API for RoR #

## Introduction ##

FastSpring's Subscription API for RoR provides an interface for integrating RoR applications with FastSpring's subscription services.  It provides
the necessary CRUD operations needed to manage subscriptions.

## Class Library ##

The FastSpring Subscription API class library provides the CRUD operations in a single class called FastSpring. This class and other classes
used to pass the data in and out of the APIs are described below.

	class FastSpring
		def test_mode=
		def test_mode?
		
		def initialize(store_id, api_username, api_password)
		
		def create_subscription(product_ref, referrer, order_type=:detail)
		
		def get_subscription(subscription_ref)
		
		def update_subscription(subscription_update)
		
		def cancel_subscription(subscription_ref)
		
		def renew_subscription(subscription_ref)

## How-to add the FastSpring Subscription API to your RoR application ##

To start using the FastSpring Subscription API in your RoR application, build and install the FastSpring gem:

	1. gem build FastSpring.gemspec
	
	2. sudo gem install FastSpring-0.1.0.gem
	
Then add the following lines to your RoR Gemfile

	gem 'httparty'
	gem 'FastSpring'
	
Then you instantiate a new FastSpring object with the parameters that match your store's setup.

* store_id
* api_username
* api_password

### Example ###

	@fastspring = FastSpring.new("your_store_id", "your_api_username", "your_api_password")


### class FsprgSubscription ###
	@status
	@status_changed
	@status_reason
	@cancelable
	@reference
	@test
	@customer
	@customer_url
	@product_name
	@tags
	@quantity
	@next_period_date
	@end_date


### class FsprgCustomer ###
	@first_name
	@last_name
	@company
	@email
	@phone_number
	

### class FsprgSubscriptionUpdate ###
	def initialize(subscription_ref)
	
	@reference
	@product_path
	@quantity
	@tags
	@no_end_date
	@coupon
	@proration


### class FsprgException ###
	@http_status_code
	@error_code




## Example1 RoR Application ##

Demonstrates the usage of the FastSpring Subscription API in a simple web application that has a subscription page.
You will need to have an existing FastSpring store configured for subscriptions.  The following needs to be 
configured in order to use this example:

* A subscription product
* Subscription Activated Notification
* Subscription Deactivated Notification

You need to modify pages_controller.rb to modify the following values to match your store's settings:

* store_id
* api_username
* api_password
* test_mode
* product_ref

You also need to set the privateKey variable in the activate and deactivate methods. This private key
needs to match the private key in the Security tab of the Subscription Activated Notification
and Subscription Deactivated Notification respectively.


</body></html>
